# Python_intract_with_OS-final_project

This is my final project for the "Using Python to Interact with the Operating System" course by Google on Coursera. The script converts the syslog file into two CSV files:

- **error_message.csv**: Contains the ranking of errors generated by the system. It provides a list of all error messages logged and their frequencies, sorted from the most common error to the least common.

- **user_statistics.csv**: Provides user usage statistics for the service. It includes a list of all users who have used the system, along with the count of info and error messages they've generated. The report is sorted by username.

## How to Run the Script

1. Make the script executable:
    ```
    chmod +x ticky_check.py
    ```

2. Execute the script:
    ```
    ./ticky_check.py
    ```


## Project Overview

The `ticky_check.py` script processes the syslog file and generates two CSV reports, offering insights into system errors and user activities.

## File Descriptions

- **ticky_check.py**: The main Python script that reads the syslog file and generates error_message.csv and user_statistics.csv.

- **error_message.csv**: The output CSV file containing the ranking of errors.

- **user_statistics.csv**: The output CSV file containing user usage statistics.

## Project Structure

- **/syslog.log**: The input syslog file used by the script.

## Usage

Ensure you have the necessary permissions to execute the script. The script will analyze the syslog.log file and generate the required CSV files.

Feel free to modify the script or adapt it to your specific use case.

If you encounter any issues or have questions, please reach out.

Happy coding!
